h1. README for Visualization Tool for Professor Fox



h1. Useful links

h2. Learn SQL comands for POSTSQL DB
* "Command comands":http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/static/sql.html

h2 More Resources(that helped me in developing this:
* "Drifters":http://float.berkeley.edu/drifters

h1. Install InternLeagues locally

Installing InternLeagues to run locally is trivla, and steps are as follows.

h2. 1. Prequisites

To Install Internleagues, you must have POSTSQL downloaded locally on your computer

Download POSTSQL stable version at http://www.postgresql.org/download/

h2. 2. Install InternLeague

To get a new repository on your local computer:

* Starting from Desktop, mkdir Internleague on your terminal
* cd Internleague
* git clone https://github.com/luckyx1/InterLeagues.git
* now you have everything!

h2. 2 1/2. Running InternLeagues for the first time

* 1. run the following: rake db:migrate
* 2. "": rake db:seed
* 3. "": rails s(assuming your postsql is running in the background, consult the POSTSQL doc to see how to do that for your computer)
* 4. go to 0.0.0.0:3000 to see it locally!

h2. 3 Daily InternLeague use

To check if new updates has happened (while you have created no new content)
* git pull

To check if new updates has happpened(while you have created content) 
* git add -A //Only do this if you are working on a branch
* git commit -m "what you were working on"
* git pull
* -fix any merge conflicts

How to push your changes
* git add "file_name"
* git commit -m "what you were working on"
* git pull 
* -fix any merge conflicts
* git push

To create a branch
* git checkout -b branch_name

To push this branch to github
* git push origin branch_name

To switch to branch
* git checkout branch_name

To switch to master
* git checkout master

To update branch
* git pull master branch

To update master with branch
* git merge branch master

h2. 4 Heroku and InternLeague

Currently InternLeague is being hosted on InternLeague, so as follows, here is a guide to make heroku your friend and work with the app accordily.

To push to heroku do
* git add -A
* git commit -m "what you were working on"
* git pull
* fix merge
* git push
* git push heroku master

h1. Updating DB

To update the database using POSTSQL, a backup must be initiated to keep data consistent.

while inside the Internleagues folder:
	1. call bash pull_db_from_heroku.sh
	This will create a local db called mydb(removes it if it exist prior to this)
	2. call bash backup_heroku.sh to also get the dump file locally
	This returns a mydb.dump equivalent as the mydb above(this is just for double checking haha)
	3. call bash shift_to_production.sh
	This will shift your working InternLeague_development db to a mylocaldb to be pushed to heroku
	4. call bash update_heroku_db.sh
	This will wipe heroku db, update with this, and set the seeds
And thats it!

OR do all this in one go with the following:
	bash heroku_update.sh
	* A note: you might have to configure the bash files to your own settings, so do this so I can git ignore these files afterwards.

h2. 5 Other nifty tricks for Ruby, rails, SQL etc (for FUN!)

To use SQL with rails
* rails console
* ActiveRecord::Base.connection.execute('SELECT * FROM users')

To use POSTSQL 
* psql
* \c "InternLeauge_development" lets you connect to that specific db
* \list shows all the db available
* \d list all the tables

On Heroku, in order to modify and work with data
*heroku pg:psql

To update the pgsl db:migrate(a hack)
*heroku run rake db:schema:load

How to find empty params in old data, then just update it manually when you find it:
* SELECT locaton, id 
* FROM mytable 
* WHERE COALESCE(location, '') = '' 
* ;

How to reindex the numbers
ALTER SEQUENCE opportunities_id_seq RESTART WITH 1;
UPDATE opportunities SET id=nextval('opportunities_id_seq');

UPDATE opportunities
SET id = nextval('opportunities_id_seq');

h1. 6 Maintainers

This is a list of the team as of 05/01/2014. If you have committed to this project, please add your name and contact to the list.

h2. League of Awesome~

*Sarah Wang* <chenjianzhong@berkeley.edu>
*Robert Erick Hernandez Jr.* <r.hernandez@berkeley.edu>
*John Okahata* <shadowsniper707@gmail.com>
*Eric Nguyen* <nguyen.eric@ymail.com>
*Jianzhong Chen* <harryjianzhongchen@gmail.com>

h2. Written by (last update May 2, 2014) 

*Robert Erick Hernandez Jr*

Enjoy,
The InternLeague Team~